#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble

\usepackage[a4paper]{geometry}

% General packages for math in general, theorems and symbols 
% Read ftp://ftp.ams.org/ams/doc/amsmath/short-math-guide.pdf for further information
\usepackage{amsmath} 
\usepackage{amsthm}
\usepackage{amssymb}
% A way to define theorems and lemmata

% Optional calligraphic fonts    
% \usepackage[mathscr]{eucal}

% Packages for building tables and tabulars 
\usepackage{array}
\usepackage{tabu}   % Wide lines in tables
\usepackage{xspace} % Non-eatable spaces in macros

% Including graphical images and setting the figure directory
\usepackage{graphicx}
\graphicspath{{figures/}}

% Packages for getting clickable links in PDF file
\usepackage{hyperref}
\usepackage[all]{hypcap}
% 

% Packages for defining colourful text together with some colours
\usepackage{color}
\usepackage{xcolor} 
%\definecolor{dkgreen}{rgb}{0,0.6,0}
%\definecolor{gray}{rgb}{0.5,0.5,0.5}
\definecolor{mauve}{rgb}{0.58,0,0.82}


% Standard package for drawing algorithms
% Since the thesis in article format we must define \chapter for
% the package algorithm2e (otherwise obscure errors occur) 
\let\chapter\section
\usepackage[ruled, vlined, linesnumbered]{algorithm2e}

% Fix a  set of keywords which you use inside algorithms
\SetKw{True}{true}
\SetKw{False}{false}
\SetKwData{typeInt}{Int}
\SetKwData{typeRat}{Rat}
\SetKwData{Defined}{Defined}
\SetKwFunction{parseStatement}{parseStatement}


% Nice todo notes
\usepackage{todonotes}

% Define your favorite macros that you use inside the thesis 
% Name followed by non-removable space
\newcommand{\proveit}{ProveIt\xspace}

% Macros that make sure that the math mode is set
\newcommand{\typeF}[1] {\ensuremath{\mathsf{type_{#1}}}\xspace}
\newcommand{\opDiv}{\ensuremath{\backslash \mathsf{div}}\xspace} 

% Nice Todo box
\newcommand{\TODO}{\todo[inline]}

% A way to define theorems and lemmata
\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\master 0_thesis.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Conclusions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For this thesis, Cell Plan Calculator was designed and programmed.
 It was designed to be flexible in order to be able to use the variety of
 input data.
 Cell plans were created for passive mobile positioning.
 Toivo Vajakas and Jaan Vajakas work on SPDF was used to test which cell
 plan is better for estimating mobile locations.
 Test data was collected from MNO and test users.
 Prior SPDF code was used for creating test cases for collected data.
 Modifications were made to SPDF code to create the stacked probabilities
 of each cell in each pixel.
 Results were visualized and analyzed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Discussion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When using different observation data, then MLE values are not comparable.
 Therefore the relative performance of different models can be only evaluated
 for each user data separately.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Surprisingly all the Voronoi-based cell plans seem to have better SPDF estimates
 than the RSSI-based.
 The expectations were that sophisticated RSSI models would be superior
 to simple model like Voronoi model.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Cell plan 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

rssi_ellipse
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 seems to be most inaccurate based on the SPDF in almost most of the user
 data, this should be certainly avoided in practice.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are notable differences in the ranking of the cell plan variants between
 users.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Figure 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "fig:overlapping-cell-model"

\end_inset

 shows how Bayes' rule changes the likelihood estimations.
 The results show that accounting for cell overlap effect with Bayes' rule
 had in the majority of cases positive effect.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Figure 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "fig:cell_plan_variants_log"

\end_inset

 (c) shows that the best cell plans are not improved by Bayes' rule and
 worse cell plans are significantly improved.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In Figure 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "fig:cell_plan_variants_log"

\end_inset

 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

voronoi_convexhull
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

voronoi_default
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 are practically identical as these methods are internally the same.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Future plans
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Research can be continued in multiple directions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One way is to apply the algorithms to larger data sets.
 One might recruit a bigger group of data gatherers for active data collecting,
 or use crowd-sourcing data.
 For example, OpenCellId 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "openCellId"

\end_inset

 collects data with GPS and connected cell's CGI from volunteers.
 OpenCellId database has 145273 measurements collected over our test period
 (120316 measurements in EMT, 19846 in Elisa and 5111 in Tele2).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For more data, it is possible to not to use CDR data at all.
 Instead use selected data gatherers or crowd-sourced data, that contain
 GPS location and the connected BTS information for each GPS location.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To further the research with SPDF, extra calculations could be done with
 Bayesian prior.
 For example, one could consider GIS layers of roads and buildings.
 Probability to encounter ME devices should be higher in near roads and
 buildings.
 It is possible to group events not only by users but by other attributes,
 e.g.
 separate urban and rural events, to test how it will effect MLE values.
 Too fine-grain subsets may bring up the too small dataset and over-fitting
 problems.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
CDR event type was not taken into account in our analysis.
 For example, if event type shows the location update, it might suggest
 that ME is on the edge of the cell, not somewhere in the middle of the
 cell.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
